### Goals
- The trainee will understand what Linux namespaces are
- The trainee will understand what Linux cgroups are
- The trainee will be familiar with the the concepts of containers
- The trainee will understand how Docker containers work
- The trainee will know how to create Docker images
- The trainee will know how to run Docker containers
- The trainee will know how do Image, Storage and Networks of a Docker container work

### Tasks
- Read about Linux namespaces
- List the different types of namespaces and their purpose
- Create a network namespace with a network interface so that there will be a connection between the root namespace and the new one
- Read about Linux cgroups, what are their purpose?
- What is Docker Container?  
- What are the differences between a Docker container and a Virtual Machine?
- Draw a diagram that explains the differences between a Container Virtualization and a VM Virtualization.
- Read about the following topics referred to Docker Containers. You can use the Docker Documentation
  - Images
  - Networks
  - Storage (Drivers and Volumes)
  - Dockerfile
- Answer the following questions:
  - How does image layers work in a docker image?
  - Explain the 3 types of docker volumes
  - Explain shortly about each docker's network type.
  - How can you list all the docker images on your machine?
  - How can you list all the docker containers on your machine?
  - How can you enter a running container? (using bash)
  - What does the `-d` flag do when starting a container?
- Create the following scenario:
  - Start two WordPress docker containers and one MySQL container (Both WordPress should use the MySQL container as its database)
  - Add an nginx docker container as a load balancer between the two WordPress containers
  - Create a docker-compose file for creating the scenario

### References
- [Docker docs site](https://docs.docker.com/)
